# WriteLog Q&As

When a transaction is committed, its transaction log is written to the log service through WriteLog RPC. There are some issues to be clarified around write log.

## How does the log service process WriteLog request

Before writing log to log service, the WriteLogRequest is prepared on the txn coordinator node. Txn coordinator term and participants' ccnode terms (the locks' terms) are included in WriteLogRequest. When log service processes WriteLog request, these terms are compared with the actual latest node group terms stored in LogState. If either term check fails, the WriteLogRequest will be rejected.  
If the locks terms not match, the participant must have failed over and the locks are not valid anymore. They might have been acquired by other transactions. So the WriteLog request must be rejected.  
If the txn coordinator term not match, the txn coordinator has failed over and is not group leader anymore. The locks it holds on the txn participants could have been recovered and are not valid. So the WriteLog request must be rejected too.

## What happens if log service is temporarily unavailable and WriteLog request timeout

If the log service is unavailable, the WriteLog RPC response status is `unknown`, indicating that this WriteLog result is unknown. It cannot be assumed that the txn is committed or aborted as it could be either case.  
For DML transactions, the coordinator must keep retrying the WriteLog request until getting a clear response, either success or failure, or the coordinator itself is no longer leader. In the last case, the committing process interrupts with an unknown result, and an error message "Log service is unreachable, transaction status is unknown" is returned. For these result unknown txns, The coordinator must skip the PostProcess and the locks on participants remain. The participants ccnodes will do the PostProcess individually via orphan lock recovery mechanism. The locks are released after inquiring the log service and the updated data is restored if the txn is committed.  
If the txn coordinator is also a participant, on the old leader, the result does not matter because it's not leader anymore; on the new leader, the result will be restored through log replay.

For DDL transactions, logs are written three times: prepare log, commit log and clean log.  
Prepare log's retry mechanism are basically the same as DML transactions, i.e., keep retrying until not leader, return an unknown error message without releasing the write intents. If prepare log is written successfully, the new leader will take over and handle the rest after replaying the log; if not, lock recovery mechanism will recover the write intents it left on all nodes.  
For commit log and clean log phase, the difference from prepare log is that a success is returned if leader change interrupts the retry. It might still be ongoing but will succeed eventually as DDL is guaranteed to succeed once the prepare log is written.

## How do we make write log idempotent
Write log are retried if no clear result is returned from log service, and the API should be idempotent to introduce no side effect and cause no confusion of user if the same WriteLog request is sent multiple times. Here is the design.

For DML transactions, the actual order of different transactions are decided by their commit timestamps which is set before writing log. So it's safe for a transaction to be written to log service several times. What is not safe is that the transaction is actually written to log service (at least once) but the coordinator does not get the success result and retries the write log request, this time the write log might fail (term check fails) and coordinator gets the failure result and returns it to the user. It is also unsafe if the write log never succeeds but a success response is returned, but this should be impossible.  
So how to prevent returning failure result to user when the transaction actually succeeds? On the transaction coordinator side, if write log result is unknown, the coordinator retries the write log request and set a flag indicating that this is a retried request. On the log service side, when processing the retried write log request, if this retried request succeeds, the previous result unknown requests should must have succeeded if they are ever processed. So log service returns success. Things are different if the retried write log fails due to term check failure. The previous requests could have succeeded and the transaction is actually committed. In this case, log service cannot just return failure without making sure that the transaction is never committed. For retried write log request, if it fails, log state needs to be searched to determine the fate of this transaction. If the transaction number are found in committed logs, success instead of failure should be returned to the coordinator.  
It is also possible that original request comes to log service later than the retried requests. The original request carries no retry flag and the log state will not be searched if it fails. But the result doesn't matter because the coordinator has sent the retied requests, its context is not valid at the coordinator. So the original request has no effect both at the transaction coordinator and the log service.

For DDL transactions, the transaction finishes after the clean log is written. To filter the retried schema log of previous stage, the operation stage only rolls forward. Log service keeps the schema operation log at clean stage in log state for some time. When processing prepare log requests, stale prepare log will not be inserted. The schema log at clean stage will be erased eventually after all node groups' checkpoint ts is greater than its commit ts. After the schema log is erased, checkpoint ts will be used to reject stale schema prepare log requests, if any.

## Orphan lock recovery
After a transaction finishes WriteLog or aborts, the coordinator will do the PostProcess on all participants including releasing the locks and uploading the new values (if any). However, the PostProcess is not guranteed to succeed when txn finishes. It would be too costly if the coordinator has to keep retrying and block until all participants have finished PostProcess. If a transaction finishes without releasing the lock, the lock becomes an orphan lock and needs to be recovered and the failed PostProcess needs to be done individually on the participants.

If a lock exists for a period of time, it will be checked whether the lock holding transaction is ongoing or has finished. A transaction recovery request will be assigned to LogReplayService. The LogReplayService will do the lock recovery, which consists of two phases, enquiring the transaction coordinator and enquiring the log service if necessary.  
The LogReplayService first enquires the lock holding transaction coordinator node group's leader through CheckTxStatus RPC.
- If the transaction is still ongoing, nothing is done and the lock is not orphan;
- if the transaction has aborted, all the locks it holds on the orphan lock node will be cleared;
- if the transaction is committed, the value it committed needs to be retrieved from the log service;
- if the transaction information not found on the coordinator leader, it means either the transaction has finished (committed or aborted) on the original leader and its TEntry has been reused, or the coordinator node group has failed over, and the transaction's lifetime is over too: 
  - If the failover happens before the transaction WriteLog, the transaction is aborted because the old leader's WriteLog request will be rejected by term check and never succeed;
  - if the failover happens after the transaction WriteLog, the transaction commits or aborts depending on the WriteLog result.

So, in the last two cases: if the transaction is committed or not found on the coordinator group leader, ReplayService enquires the log service through RecoverTx RPC. The log service searches the transaction's log, if not found, the transaction is aborted; if found, the transaction's log will be shipped to the LogReplayService through brpc stream later, asynchronously. When the RecoverTx RPC returns, if the result is transaction aborted, all its locks will be cleared immediately on this node; if the transaction is actually committed, nothing is done, the transaction lock will be cleared after the ReplayService receives its log from the log service and replays the log and uploads the transaction's values.

For multi-stage transactions like DDL and range split, write intent and write lock's recovery follows the same rule. If transaction log exists in log state, regardless of the stage, the transaction is guaranteed to succeed and the participant does nothing and wait for the coordinator to finish the transaction and release the locks. Different from DML transactions, Multi-stage transactions must finish PostProcess on all participants and make sure all locks are released before flushing the clean log.